# EnergyPlus-API

This repository contains code and resources for working with EnergyPlus and run simulations through an API using Colab and Python.

## Overview

[EnergyPlus](https://energyplus.net/) is a building energy simulation program for modeling building heating, cooling, lighting, ventilating, water use, and other energy flows. This repository provides tools and examples for interacting with the EnergyPlus API.

## Get Started Locally

To get started, clone the repository and install the required dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/MohamedAbdelfattah022/EnergyPlus-API.git
cd EnergyPlus-API
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Ensure you have EnergyPlus software installed.

## Using Colab
Feel free to use the provided [Colab notebook](EnergyPlus_API%20Colab.ipynb).

Make sure to add Ngrok Authentication Token to colab secrets with the name `NGROK_AUTH_TOKEN`

## Usage

### Running the API Server

To run the API server, execute the following command:

```bash
python EnergyPlus_API.py
```

The server will be accessible at `http://127.0.0.1:8080`.

### API Endpoints

#### 1. Run Simulation

**Endpoint:** `/api/run-simulation`  
**Method:** `POST`  
**Description:** Runs an EnergyPlus simulation with the provided IDF and EPW files.

**Request:**
- `idf_file`: The IDF file (Input Data File) for the simulation.
- `epw_file`: The EPW file (Weather Data File) for the simulation.

**Response:**
- On success, returns the `eplustbl.htm` file, which contains the simulation results.
- On error, returns an error message with the status code.

**Example:**

```bash
curl -X POST -F 'idf_file=@path/to/file.idf' -F 'epw_file=@path/to/file.epw' http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/run-simulation
```

#### 2. List Output Files

**Endpoint:** `/api/output-files`  
**Method:** `GET`  
**Description:** Lists the files generated by the simulation in the output directory.

**Response:**
- On success, returns a JSON object with the list of files.
- On error, returns an error message with the status code.

**Example:**

```bash
curl http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/output-files
```

## License

This repository is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.




